In the mid-1970’s,
several brothers from the Montréal area
were approached to help
with a unique situation that was unfolding.
A special pioneer,
who was taking the lead at the time,
said that about a thousand people
—all from the same church—
wanted to study the Bible
with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
And it was all because of an informal witness.
The story began this way:
A brother in the local congregation
approached me one day
to tell me about an experience
he had with one of his workmates.
This man was responsible
for a small local church,
and the brother had been able
to give him an informal witness.
The man indicated
that he would like a Bible study,
and he wanted to convince
the other members of his church
to also study the Bible
with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
The fact was that this person
had a certain influence in the church.
So he talked to the church members
about the message
he had heard from the brother,
and he convinced them
that what they were missing
was a better understanding of the Bible.
Many people heard about it
because it was an exceptional event.
From what I heard,
there were around a thousand people
who wanted to study
the Bible at that time.
We didn’t have
the brothers and sisters
that were needed
to conduct all these Bible studies.
So they formed groups
of 10, 12, 15 people.
And once or twice a week in Kingdom Halls,
they conducted Bible studies.
It was questions, questions.
Everyone was asking questions.
But the Bible could always answer
all these questions in a logical way
—one verse would explain another.
And we came to see
that the Bible in its entirety
could explain every subject.
At the beginning,
groups of two or three families studied together.
And, yeah,
they answered with the Bible.
That amazed me because
I didn’t know the Bible at all.
But I thought, ‘The Bible talks about this;
the Bible talks about that.’
It was like a discovery for me.
That was the parents.
The children weren’t there.
So when we accepted it,
then we’d teach it to our children.
Everyone was disciplined while sitting at the table.
The children were very quiet
with their Truth book
in front of them and their Bible.
When these families
came to the Kingdom Hall,
the children were sitting beside their parents,
not moving, paying attention
to what was being said.
I was young when they started coming.
I remember it very well.
A lot of them were my age.
I saw them like future potential friends.
It was really touching.
The first meeting
I attended was here in Laval.
It really contributed to me
one day taking a stand
and Jehovah becoming my God
and the truth becoming my way of life.
When I was young,
I was very afraid of death.
It was such a relief to learn
that we don’t suffer when we die.
It’s like a sleep.
The ambitions I had before,
that may have been attainable,
became second place.
Now it was to have a simple life,
to walk with the organization,
and to raise my children in the truth.
Today, these brothers
are really doing a lot in the organization,
helping in different areas,
shouldering great responsibilities.
My father always strived
to set the example for all his children,
and it made an impression on me.
Now my wife and I have the privilege
of serving here at the Canada branch.
I was eight years old
when my family started attending meetings.
I have really good memories of how
the local congregation at the time
took care of us and looked after us.
At the age of 15,
I started reading my Bible every day
and studying it too.
From that point on,
I knew what I wanted to do with my life
—serve Jehovah full-time.
I really think Jehovah could see us on the inside.
Jehovah helped us a lot.
You can’t have anything better than that.
On our own,
we never would have got out of that situation.
But Jehovah found a way
to find “rightly disposed” ones.
A simple informal witness
led to Bible studies that touched so many.